README.md, before:

# tile-retriever

![tests](https://github.com/GlobeletJS/tile-retriever/actions/workflows/node.js.yml/badge.svg)

Load vector tiles from sources described in MapLibre style documents

tile-retriever inputs a source object from a [MapLibre style document][],
and constructs a tile retriever function. 

The retriever function inputs a set of tile coordinates of the form 
`{ z, x, y }` and a callback function. It then retrieves the tile from the
endpoints specified in the source, and executes the callback function with 
the tile's layers and features as a dictionary of GeoJSON FeatureCollections.

Using tile-retriever, you can play with the [basic demo][], build your own
[GIS][] code from scratch, or anything in between!

[MapLibre style document]: https://maplibre.org/maplibre-gl-js-docs/style-spec/
[basic demo]: https://globeletjs.github.io/tile-retriever/examples/maptiler/index.html
[GIS]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_information_system

## Initialization

A new tile retriever function is instantiated as follows:
```javascript
import * as tileRetriever from "tile-retriever";

const retrieve = tileRetriever.init({ source, defaultID });
```

where the initialization parameters are:
- `.source` (REQUIRED): A [MapLibre source object][]. MUST be of type `vector`
  or `geojson`, with all external information (TileJSON description, or GeoJSON
  data) already retrieved and present in the object (NOT linked via URLs).
  You can ensure the data is already retrieved by loading the style with the
  `.loadStyle` method from [tile-stencil][]
- `.defaultID`: Only relevant for GeoJSON sources. Will be used as the layer
  name for the retrieved GeoJSON

[MapLibre source object]: https://maplibre.org/maplibre-gl-js-docs/style-spec/sources/
[tile-stencil]: https://github.com/GlobeletJS/tile-stencil

## Requesting a tile
The retriever function has the following signature:
```javascript
const request = retrieve(tileCoords, callback);
```

where tileCoords has properties `{ z, x, y }`, corresponding to the indices
of the desired tile.

If you call the `retrieve` function, and then decide you don't need the tile,
you can abort the request using the returned request object:
```javascript
request.abort();
```

## Handling the returned tile data
The callback supplied to the `retrieve` function has the following signature
```javascript
function callback(error, json) {
  if (error) throw error;

  console.log(json);
}
```

The returned JSON data is a dictionary of layers, keyed on the original name
from the source [vector tile layer][]. (For geojson sources, there will only be
one layer, with the key being the supplied `defaultID`.) The value of each
layer is a [GeoJSON][] FeatureCollection.

Example:
```json
{
  "layer1": { "type": "FeatureCollection", "features": [...] },
  "layer2": { "type": "FeatureCollection", "features": [...] },
  ...
}
```

[vector tile layer]: https://github.com/mapbox/vector-tile-spec/tree/master/2.1#41-layers
[GeoJSON]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GeoJSON

Commit message:

Return a Promise resolving to the data. BREAKING CHANGE

README.md, after:

# tile-retriever

![tests](https://github.com/GlobeletJS/tile-retriever/actions/workflows/node.js.yml/badge.svg)

Load vector tiles from sources described in MapLibre style documents

tile-retriever inputs a source object from a [MapLibre style document][],
and constructs a tile retriever function. 

The retriever function inputs a set of tile coordinates of the form
`{ z, x, y }`. It then retrieves the tile from the endpoints specified in the
source, and returns a [Promise][] resolving to the tile's layers and features
as a dictionary of GeoJSON FeatureCollections.

Using tile-retriever, you can play with the [basic demo][], build your own
[GIS][] code from scratch, or anything in between!

[MapLibre style document]: https://maplibre.org/maplibre-gl-js-docs/style-spec/
[Promise]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise
[basic demo]: https://globeletjs.github.io/tile-retriever/examples/maptiler/index.html
[GIS]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_information_system

## Initialization

A new tile retriever function is instantiated as follows:
```javascript
import * as tileRetriever from "tile-retriever";

const retrieve = tileRetriever.init({ source, defaultID });
```

where the initialization parameters are:
- `.source` (REQUIRED): A [MapLibre source object][]. MUST be of type `vector`
  or `geojson`, with all external information (TileJSON description, or GeoJSON
  data) already retrieved and present in the object (NOT linked via URLs).
  You can ensure the data is already retrieved by loading the style with the
  `.loadStyle` method from [tile-stencil][]
- `.defaultID`: Only relevant for GeoJSON sources. Will be used as the layer
  name for the retrieved GeoJSON

[MapLibre source object]: https://maplibre.org/maplibre-gl-js-docs/style-spec/sources/
[tile-stencil]: https://github.com/GlobeletJS/tile-stencil

## Requesting a tile
The retriever function has the following signature:
```javascript
const tilePromise = retrieve(tileCoords, init);
```

where the arguments are:
- `tileCoords` (REQUIRED): An object with properties `{ z, x, y }`, 
  corresponding to the indices of the desired tile
- `init` (OPTIONAL): An object with custom settings for the [fetch][] call

The return value is a [Promise][] resolving to the tile data. The Promise will
reject if the fetch rejects, and will also reject if the fetch response has a
status not equal to 200.

To make a `retrieve` call abortable, supply an [AbortController][] as the
`init` object. Then, if you later decide you don't need the tile, you can abort
the request as follows:
```javascript
const controller = new AbortController();

const tilePromise = retrieve(tileCoords, controller);

// ... For some reason, now you don't want the tile
controller.abort();
```

`tilePromise` will then reject with an `AbortError`.

[fetch]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch
[AbortController]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AbortController

## Handling the returned tile data
The returned JSON data is a dictionary of layers, keyed on the original name
from the source [vector tile layer][]. (For geojson sources, there will only be
one layer, with the key being the supplied `defaultID`.) The value of each
layer is a [GeoJSON][] FeatureCollection.

Example:
```json
{
  "layer1": { "type": "FeatureCollection", "features": [...] },
  "layer2": { "type": "FeatureCollection", "features": [...] },
  ...
}
```

[vector tile layer]: https://github.com/mapbox/vector-tile-spec/tree/master/2.1#41-layers
[GeoJSON]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GeoJSON
